## Object Oriented Programming in C++

The problem statements for each of the programs above is given below.

1. **Exception.cpp:**

   Write three exception classes BadOperator, BadOperand and DivideByZero. Write a function called ValidateOperand that takes one argument of type long int and checks whether the number is within the range 10000 to 50000. If the number is not within that range throw BadOperand exception. Write another function called ValidateOperator that takes one argument of type char and checks whether it is one among the operators +, -, *, and /. If it is not throw BadOperator Exception. Write another function called Calculate that takes three arguments two of long int type (the two operands) and the third of char type (the operator). Based on the operator perform the corresponding operation on the two operands and return the result as float. Also before the division operation check whether the second operand is not zero. If it is zero throw the exception DivideByZero or else perform division and return the result. Write main function to get the input for the two operands and the operator, validate the operands and the operator, and perform the calculation based on the operator. Also for invalid input catch the exceptions and print appropriate error messages.

2. **Template.cpp:**  

   Create a template class Array that has an array a, of size 10 of generic type and n of int type as its data members. Write a default constructor to get input for the n and the array elements from the user. Write a member function RangeSum that takes two arguments: a start index, a stop index and returns the sum of the elements in the array from start index to stop index both inclusive. Write a member function Search that takes the value to be searched as an argument and returns the position of the element in that array. Write a constant member function that takes an argument scalar of type int, multiplies each element by scalar value and assign it to a new Array object and returns the newly created Array object. Write a main function to create two Array objects for int and float and find the sum of the elements of the given range, search for the position of a given element in the array, and create two more Array objects that stores the given scalar multiple of the two original Array objects respectively.

3. **Inheritance_and_Virtual_Functions.cpp:**

   Create a class called Convert that has two private members initial_value and converted_value of float type. Write a constructor that takes one argument and set it to the initial_value. Write two member functions get_initial and get_converted to return the values stored in the two data members. Write a pure virtual function convert_it. Derive two classes KM_to_Miles and Miles_to_KM from Convert class. Provide a 1-argument constructor in both classes and pass that value to base class to store it in initial_value. Implement the conver_it function to convert the value between km and miles using the formula miles = km*0.6. Derive two more classes called Meter_to_Yards and Yards_to_Meters from Convert class. Provide a 1-argument constructor in both classes and pass that value to base class to store it in initial_value. Implement the conver_it function to convert the value between Meters and Yards using the formula yards = meters * 39.0 / 36.0. Write a main function to create a pointer to the base class Convert. Get the option from the user whether he want to convert from Kilo Meter to Miles, Miles to Kilo Meter, Meters to Yards, or Yards to Meters. Based on the option from the user get the input and create the appropriate derived class object and point it by the base class pointer. Call the convert_it method to convert appropriately and display the converted value.

   ****

4. **Inheritance.cpp:**

   Create a class called Tool that has two protected data members, an int field called strength and a char field called type. Write a member function called setStrength that takes a single integer argument and sets the strength for the Tool. Create 3 more classes called Rock, Paper, and Scissors, which inherit from Tool. In each of these classes provide a single argument constructor that takes an int argument that is used to initialize the strength field. Also it should initialize the type field to 'r' for Rock, 'p' for Paper, and 's' for Scissors. Provide a public function called fight in all these derived classes, that takes a single argument of type Tool and returns a Boolean value by comparing the strength of the passed argument with the strength of the object that is calling the function in the following way: Rock's strength is doubled (temporarily) when fighting scissors, but halved (temporarily) when fighting paper. In the same way, paper has the advantage against rock, and scissors against paper. The strength field shouldn't change in the function, which returns true if the original class wins in strength and false otherwise. In main function create objects of Rock, Paper, and Scissors, with strength values given by the user and call the fight function for all three objects against remaining two objects and display the results.

5. **Multiple_Inheritance.cpp:**

   Create a class called Van that has three protected data members payload, gross_weight, and mpg of float data type. Provide 3-arg constructor for initializing the data members. Write a public member function efficiency that returns the value of payload / (payload + gross_weight). Write another public member function cost_per_ton that takes a single argument fuel_cost of float type and returns the value of (fuel_cost * 2000) / payload. Also write one more public member function called cost_per_day that takes cost_of_gas of float type as argument and returns the result of cost_of_gas * 55 / mpg. Write another class called Driver that has one protected data member hourly_pay. Provide a single *argument constructor to initialize its data member. Provide a public member function called cost_per_mile that takes no arguments and returns the result of hourly_pay / 55 and another public member function cost_per_day that takes overtime_cost of float type as argument and returns the result of 8hourly_pay+overtime_cost. Create a class called driven_truck that is inherited from Van and Driver classes. Provide 4-argument constructor to initialize its inherited data members through the base class constructors. Also provide a public member function called cost_per_day that takes gas_cost of float type as argument and returns the result of ((8.0hourly_pay) + (gas_cost * 55)) / mpg. In main function create an object of driven_truck and call the member functions to calculate efficiency, cost_per_mile and the cost_per_day of van, driver and driven_truck classes and print the results.

6. **Inheritance_and_Virtual_Functions.cpp:**

   Create a class called Pet that has two private data members name and food of string type. Write a 2-argument constructor to assign values to its data members. Write 2 member functions to return the name, and food values respectively. Write pure virtual functions likes(), says(). Derive a class called Dog from the Pet class that includes a data member favorite_activity. Write a 3-argument constructor that passes the two values to the base class and assigns the 3rd one to the favorite_activity. Implement the likes() function to display the message in the following format: <Name of the dog> likes <Food> and <favorite_activity>. Implement the says() function to display the message in the following format: “<Name of the Dog> says Bow Bow!”. Create another derived class called Cat from the Pet class that includes a data member called Age. Write a 3-argument constructor that passes the two values to the base class and assigns the 3rd one to age. Implement the likes() function to display the message in the following format: <Name of the cat> likes <Food> at the age of <age>. Implement the says() function to display the message in the following format: “<Name of the Cat> says Mew Mew!”. Write main function to create an array of pointers of size 5 to the Pet class make it to point to two Dog objects and 3 Cat objects and assign appropriate values to its data members through constructor. Call the likes and says member functions to display the messages.

7. **Operator_Overloading.cpp:**

   Create a class called Matrix that has three private data members: a 2D array of float type, number of rows (nr) and number of columns (nc) of integer type. Provide public member function getMatrix() to get input, dispMatrix() to print the matrix. Overload the operators +, - and * as constant member functions to compute the addition, subtraction and multiplication of two compatible matrices respectively that takes a constant argument of Matrix type and returns the resultant Matrix. Write a main function to create objects of Matrix, get input for the two matrices and after checking compatibility of the matrices for addition, subtraction and multiplication perform the operation and print the results.

8. **Operator_Overloading_and_Friend_Functions.cpp:**

   Create a class called Rational which has two data members x and y to store the numerator and denominator of a rational number. Define friend functions for adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing two rational numbers by overloading the operators +, -,* , and / and return the result as Rational number. In main function create two objects of Rational class and display the results of adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing these two numbers. [*Note: The result of the arithmetic operation need not be reduced. For example when you add a/b with c/d, just compute the result as (ad+cb)/(bd)*].

9. **Data_Conversion_and_Friend_Functions.cpp:**

   Create a class called IComplex that has two private data members rp and ip of double type. Create another class called PComplex that has two private data members radius and theta (in radians). For both classes, provide a 2-argument constructor with default arguments to initialize its data members to given values, or to 0 if values are not given. In the PComplex class provide functions to convert between classes using following formula:

    PComplex to IComplex : rp = radius * cos(theta) and ip = radius * sin(theta)

    IComplex to PComplex: radius = sqrt(rp*rp + ip*ip) and theta = atan(ip/rp)

   Overload the operator + as a friend function to add one IComplex object with another PComplex object and return the result as IComplex Object. For addition convert the PComplex Object into IComplex and add the corresponding data members. In the main function create one object of IComplex and another Object of PComplex with the user given values and print the result of adding these two objects using friend function and print the result.

   